Please answer the below core-java Questions:


What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
The components of Java Development Kit are:
- Java Compiler: it is used to compile java files. It is accessed using "javac" command.
- Java Interpreter: it is used to inteprete the java files that are compiled by Java Compiler. It is accessed using "java" command.
- Java Disassembler: It is used to disassemble Java class file. It is accessed using "javap" command.
- Java Header File Generator: It is used to generate C language header files and source files to implement the native methods.
   It is accessed using "javah" command.
- Java Documentation: it is required for easy maintenance of code. It is accessed using "javadoc" command.
- Java Debugger: it is used to debug the java files. It is accessed using "jdb" command.
- Java Applet Viewer: It is used to view the Java Applets. It is accessed using "appletviewer" command.

What is IDE?
IDE is Integrated Development Environment. It is a software application that provides comprehensive facilities to computer programmers for
software development. An IDE normally consists of a source code editor, build automation tools and a debugger.

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
Eclipse, IntelliJ, Android Studio, Enid Studio, BlueJ, jEdit, jGRASP, JSource, JDeveloper, DrJava.

Explain the entire java life cycle.
when you write a program using java language in an editor such as eclipse it becomes a source code and it is a high level language understood
by people but not by the machine.
The machine understands binary code, so the java compiler is going to convert this high level language into bitecode which appears as a class.
Then, using the java loader, the class file is loaded into Java Virtul Machine (JVM) which sends the information to the operating system in order
to present the output.

what is class?
A class is a blueprint for an object.

What is object?
Object is an instance of a class.

What is the entry point of an application?
I t the main method.

Why main is static?
Because it is called by JVM before any objects are created.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
- An Interface can contain only abstract methods. The concrete class uses the keyword "implements" to inherit the properties of the interface.
  The concrete class can implement multiple interfaces at a time.
- The abstract class can contain abstract and non-abstract methods. The concrete class uses the keyword "extends" to inherit the properties
  of the abstract class.The concrete class can extend only one abstract class at a time.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
We can not create an object of an Interface and Abstract class. To use them we create an object of the concrete class that inherited their
properties.

what is Access Specifier?
The Access Specifier is used to control what information or data can be accessible by other classes.

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
Object Oriented Programing.
- Inheritance: it is process to acquire properties from a super class to a subclass.
- Polymorphism: The ability of an object to take many forms.
- Abstraction: implementation hiding.
- Encapsulation: data hiding.

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
API (Application Program Interface) is a set of routines, protocols, and tools for building software applications.
We used Java API

Does java support multiple inheritance?
No

What is method overloading and when it happens?
In the same class many methods that have the same name but different parameters. It happens in compile time.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
Exception is a problem that arises during the execution of a program. When an Exception occurs the normal flow of the program is disrupted.
To handle exceptions we can use Try Catch block.

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
- The static keyword in Java means that the variable or function is shared between all instances of that class as it belongs to the type, not
  the actual objects themselves.
- Static in terms of methods: when a method is static we do not need to create an object to call that method, we just use className.methodName.
  It can be used for memory efficiency since we dot not create objects that take space in the heap.
- Static in terms of variable: when a variable is static it does not belong to the object but it belongs to the class. So if one object make a
  change on that variable it will affect the other objects.

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
- Final means that no modification can be made.
- In terms of variable: the final variable can be initialized only one and it can not be modified.
- In terms of method: we can not override a final method.

What is final, finally and finalize?
- Final means that no modification can be made.
- Finally: finally block is implemented after try catch block to clean up the process. Finally block is executed regardless of whether or not
  the exception occurs.
- Finalize: it is used to destroy an object.

What is a constructor ?
A constructor in Java is a block of code similar to a method that's called when an instance of an object is created. The differences between a
constructor and a method: A constructor doesn't have a return type. The name of the constructor must be the same as the name of the class.

What is "this" keyword in java ?
It refers to the class itself.

What is "super" keyword in java?
"super" is used in a subclass to invoke a super class properties.

What is JVM stand for ?
Java Virtual Machine.

What version of java are you using?
"1.8.0_121"

What is JAR stand for ?
Java ARchive.

What is compile time and run time?
- Compile time: When the source code is compiled into machine code in order to become and executable program. This compilation process is referred to as
  compile time
- Run time: When an application is running, it is called runtime.

What is heap?
The heap is the runtime data area from which memory for all class instances and arrays is allocated.

How java manage it's memory?
By using the java garbage collector.

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
- String class is used to manipulate character strings that cannot be changed
- The StringBuffer class is used to represent characters that can be modified.
- StringBuilder objects are like String objects, except that they can be modified.

What is Singleton class?
Singleton pattern helps us to keep only one instance of a class at any time. The purpose of singleton is to control object creation by keeping
private constructor.

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
Serialization is a process of converting an object into a sequence of bytes which can be persisted to a disk or database. The reverse process
of creating object from sequence of bytes is called deserialization.

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
Both take same amount of memory in heap.

Why is String Immutable in Java?
Because Mutable strings could cause security problem. If String was not immutable a connection or file would be changed and lead to serious
security threat.

What is constructor chaining in Java?
It is Calling one constructor from other.

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
- The Serial Collector: it’s mainly designed for single-threaded environments and for small heaps. This collector freezes all application
threads whenever it’s working, which disqualifies it for all intents and purposes from being used in a server environment.
- It uses multiple threads to scan through and compact the heap.

What is JIT stands for?
Just In Time.

Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
Java objects reside in heap. The heap is created when the JVM starts up and may increase or decrease in size while the application runs.
When the heap becomes full, garbage is collected. During the garbage collection objects that are no longer used are cleared, thus making
space for new objects.

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
Yes.

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
The main difference between heap and stack is that stack memory is used to store local variables and function call while heap memory is used
to store objects in Java.



