Please answer the below Data Structure Questions:

why do we need data structure?
 A data structure is a specialized format for organizing and storing data. Any data structure is designed to organize data to suit a specific
 purpose so that it can be accessed and worked with in appropriate ways.

What are the various operations that can be performed on different Data Structures?
 Traversing, Searching, Inserting, Deleting, Sorting, Merging.

List out the areas in which data structures are applied extensively?
 Compiler Design, Operating System, Database Management System, Statistical analysis package, Numerical Analysis, Graphics, Artificial Intelligence,
 Simulation.

what is an Array?
 An array is a group of related data values (called elements) that are grouped together. All of the array elements must be the same data type.

what is the difference between the Array and ArrayList?
 The array does not grow dynamically but the arrayList does.

what is LinkedList?
 A linked list is a linear data structure where each element is a separate object. Each element (we will call it a node) of a list is comprising
 of two items - the data and a reference to the next node. The last node has a reference to null. The entry point into a linked list is called the
 head of the list.

How is an Array different from Linked List?
 Adding or removing data from the linkedList is easier than the array.

what is queue?
 The queue is an interface. It represents an ordered list of objects just like a List , but its intended use is slightly different. A queue is designed to
 have elements inserted at the end of the queue, and elements removed from the beginning of the queue.

what is stack?
 It is a collection that is based on the last in first out (LIFO) principle.

what is FIFO and LIFO?
 - FIFO: First In First Out
 - LIFO: Last In First Out

what is the order of complexity?

what is the best case to search an element from an array?
 O(n).

what is tree in data structure?
 A tree is a widely used abstract data type (ADT)—or data structure implementing this ADT—that simulates a hierarchical tree structure, with a root value
 and subtrees of children with a parent node, represented as a set of linked nodes.

what is graph in data structure?
 A graph is a pictorial representation of a set of objects where some pairs of objects are connected by links. The interconnected objects are represented by
 points termed as vertices, and the links that connect the vertices are called edges.

what is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
 - Hashtable is synchronized and does not allow null keys or values.
 - HashMap is not synchronized and it allows null key value.

What are the major data structures used in the following areas : RDBMS, Network data model and Hierarchical data model.
 - RDBMS: Array
 - Network data model: Graph
 - Hierarchical data model: Trees

How HashMap works in java?
 HashMap in Java stores both key and value object, in bucket, as an object of Entry class which implements this nested interface Map.Entry. hashCode() -HashMap
 provides put(key, value) for storing and get(key) method for retrieving Values from HashMap.

What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When it occurs?
It is an exception that occurs when the number of the elements declared in the array in greater than the declared length of the array.

What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?
 a[i] = b[i]

What is difference between an array and a linked list?
 In array, each element is independent, no connection with previous element or with its location. In Linked list, location or address of elements is stored in
 the link part of previous element/node.

What is DFS and BFS?
 The breadth first search (BFS) and the depth first search (DFS) are the two algorithms used for traversing and searching a node in a graph. They can also be
 used to find out whether a node is reachable from a given node or not.

What is Recursion?
 Recursion is a programming technique in which a method calls itself to solve some problem.

What are linear and non linear data Structures?
 - Linear data structures are array, stacks, queue, and linked list.
 - Non linear data structures are trees and graphs.

What is Big-(O)-notation?
 Big O notation is used in Computer Science to describe the performance or complexity of an algorithm.

Outlined different kind of sorting algorithm with time complexity?

Draw a table with time complexity in which it will summarize all the data structure feature's advantages and disadvantages.
  a)In terms of Accessing element.
  b)In terms of Inserting element.
  c)In terms of Searching element.
  d)In terms of Removing element.
 - Accessing element: arrays, stack, queue, linkedlist, hashtable, tree.
 - Searching element: hashtable, stack, queue, linkedlist, arrays, tree.
 - Inserting element: stack, queue, linkedlist,hashtable, arrays.
 - Removing element: stack, queue, linkedlist,hashtable, arrays.
